 When Virat Kohli announced at the toss in St Lucia that India were making 
 three changes to their side, and that one person widely expected to step back 
 into the side, M Vijay, was not doing so, your mind went back to Sydney, to 
 his first Test as captain after MS Dhoni's retirement.

India made four changes on that occasion. One, Wriddhiman Saha replacing Dhoni, 
was a forced change. The other three were, to varying degrees, unexpected. 
Shikhar Dhawan, Cheteshwar Pujara and Ishant Sharma went out of the side, and 
in their places came Rohit Sharma, Suresh Raina and Bhuvneshwar Kumar. There 
was even a surprise retention. KL Rahul, who had made the most nervous of 
debuts in Melbourne, scoring 3 and 1, kept his place.

It felt like what it was: a step into a new era, of a captain willing to make 
wholesale changes to his side, based on a mix of form, conditions, and gut 
feel. At the end of the St Lucia Test, Kohli elaborated on this willingness.

"Usually if you see very few people like change," he said. "This team doesn't 
think how others would react or what they might say. We put out a combination 
that's best according to the pitch. When I came at No. 3 many people asked why 
I did it. But I am not fixated by my batting spot. If the team needs, I can 
open the batting too because that's the rule applicable to everyone in the team.

"It's not as if I will stay at No. 4 and others will shuffle their positions. 
To field a player like Rohit Sharma we had to make him bat at No. 5. To make 
that happen the other players will go one place up the order. That's what we 
did. In bowling we replaced Umesh [Yadav] with Bhuvi [Bhuvneshwar] because we 
felt that since the ground is so good it would be easier to maintain the shine 
on the ball. The pitch was also hard, so there was carry.

"Bhuvi gave us the results, gave us breakthroughs with the second new ball. If 
you make three changes you might feel that it might to be too strong a 
reaction. But we realised that if we have to seal the series here then we had 
to make changes according to the conditions. We will not wait for another match 
because you never know if you play one or two bad sessions the series could be 
levelled. Our idea was that we have to seal the series here."

The St Lucia result, a win by 237 runs despite rain washing out an entire day's 
play, may suggest India's changes worked a treat, but it wouldn't be wholly 
accurate to say so.

The changes to the bowling attack seemed sound from the outset, and proved to 
be so. Bhuvneshwar was possibly unfortunate to miss out on the Man of the Match 
award after bowling the match-turning spell on Friday. Ravindra Jadeja gave 
India more control than Amit Mishra had done as a second spinner while also 
revealing a new side to his bowling: both his dismissal of Roston Chase in the 
first innings and Jermaine Blackwood in the second came from slow, flighted 
balls that invited drives outside off stump. 